doc: Added 54H dfu MCUboot userguide (#23421)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_mcuboot_dfu.rst

It demonstrates how to enable mcumgr commands in the application, allowing you to read information about images managed by MCUboot.
To configure the sample for using MCUboot, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the :file:`zephyr/samples/subsys/mgmt/mcumgr/smp_svr` directory.

#. Build the firmware:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -p -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y

#. Program the firmware onto the device:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west flash

RAM cleanup
***********

To prevent data leakage, MCUboot can clear its RAM upon completion of execution.
This feature is controlled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SB_CLEANUP_RAM` Kconfig option.

Supported signatures
********************

MCUboot supports the following signature types:

* Ed25519
* Ed25519-pure - Recommended option.
  It cannot be used with external memory.
* ECDSA-P256 (enable by setting :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ECDSA_P256` to ``y``)

Signature keys
**************

By default, MCUboot stores the public key in its own bootloader image.
The build system automatically embeds the key at compile time.

> For more information, see `Adding external flash`_.

Reviewer: And actually currently we do not provide support for DFU from Ext flash

Image encryption
****************

> MCUboot supports AES-encrypted images on the nRF54H20 SoC.

Author: @nordic-mik7

> MCUboot supports AES-encrypted images on the nRF54H20 SoC.

Author: Do you have the know issue JIRA number for this?

On the nRF54H20 SoC, you can use MCUboot as a *standalone immutable bootloader*.
If you want to learn how to start using MCUboot in your application, refer to the :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild` page.
For full introduction to the bootloader and DFU solution, see :ref:`ug_bootloader_mcuboot_nsib`.

.. note::
   |NSIB| is not supported on the nRF54H20 SoC.

You must select a sample that supports DFU to ensure you can correctly test its functionality.
In the following subsections, the Zephyr's :zephyr:code-sample:`smp-svr` sample is used as an example.

Configuring MCUboot on the nRF54H20 DK
**************************************

To build your application with MCUboot, complete the following steps:

1. Navigate to the :file:`zephyr/samples/subsys/mgmt/mcumgr/smp_svr` directory.

#. Build the firmware:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -p -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y

#. Flash the firmware onto the device:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west flash

NVM protections
***************

Non-volatile memory protection is crucial for ensuring the integrity and immutability of firmware code.

> The protection is designed to disable read, write, or execute permissions when they are not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The protection disables read, write, or execute permissions when they are not required.
```

MCUboot can be protected from overwrites using the FPROTECT library.
If MCUboot is within 31 kB, the device will use RRAMC's region 4.

> For sizes exceeding 31 kB, both regions 3 and 4 are used, provided that MCUboot is configured standalone .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For sizes exceeding 31 kB, both regions 3 and 4 are used, provided that MCUboot is configured standalone.
```

> To enable the protection mechanism for sizes between 31 kB and 62 kB, configure the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT_ALLOW_COMBINED_REGIONS` Kconfig option.

Author: These need to be checked

RAM cleanup
***********

To prevent data leakage, MCUboot can clear out its RAM upon completion of execution.
This feature is controlled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SB_CLEANUP_RAM` Kconfig option.

Supported signatures
********************

MCUboot accommodates ed25519 and ed25519-pure signatures.

> The latter signature is recommended, but you cannot use it with external memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pure signature is recommended, but you cannot use it with external memory.
```

Signature keys
**************

The :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU)<ug_nrf54l_developing_basics_kmu>` retains the keys necessary for image signature verification, which must be uploaded simultaneously with the application during the flashing process.
Currently, encryption keys are not stored in the KMU.

Runtime revocation
******************

.. note::
   The support for this feature is currently :ref:`experimental <software_maturity>`.

MCUboot can invalidate image verification keys through the ``CONFIG_BOOT_KMU_KEYS_REVOCATION`` Kconfig option.
Enable this option during the MCUboot build process if there is a risk that images signed with a compromised key might contain critical vulnerabilities.

> The revocation of keys is triggered during an update when a new image is signed with a newer key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Revocation of keys is triggered during an update when a new image is signed with a newer key.
```

> .. warning::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. caution::
```
We do not use warnings. Maybe even note could be enough.

Author: Well, actually we do, but you are right on this not being high enough on the threat scale to warrant a warning. Security issues should be cautions.

   You must enable the ``CONFIG_BOOT_KMU_KEYS_REVOCATION`` Kconfig option when creating your project.
   If this option is not activated initially, it will not be possible to enable it later, making this functionality unavailable and potentially exposing your project to security issues.

Key invalidation occurs after reboot, and the confirmed application invalidates keys of lower indices.
A valid signature verification must precede any key invalidation.
The last remaining key cannot be invalidated.

.. note::

>    Once the application running in test mode confirms its stability, it will reboot the device to enable MCUboot to invalidate the keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Once the application running in test mode confirms its stability, it reboots the device to enable MCUboot to invalidate the keys.
```

   The application should avoid collecting further firmware updates or performing any erase or write operations on the image storage partition before the reboot.

> Image encryption

Author: I added something but how can customers mitigate this issue?

>    Until this reboot occurs, the application should avoid collecting further firmware updates or performing any erase or write operations on the image storage partition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The application should avoid collecting further firmware updates or performing any erase or write operations on the image storage partition before the reboot.
```

> Images encryption
> *****************

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Image encryption
****************
```

.. _ug_nrf54h20_dfu_config:

Configuring DFU and MCUboot
###########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page provides an overview of Device Firmware Update (DFU) for the nRF54H Series devices, detailing the necessary steps, configurations, and potential risks involved in setting up secure boot and firmware updates.

On the nRF54H20 SoC, you can use MCUboot as a standalone bootloader.
If you want to learn how to start using MCUboot in your application, refer to the :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild` page.
For full introduction to the bootloader and DFU solution, see :ref:`ug_bootloader_mcuboot_nsib`.

.. note::

>    |NSIB| is not supported on the nRF54H20 SoC.

Author: Added on line 12

      * If you are using an iOS device, tap the selected mode in the pop-up window.

      .. note::
         For samples using random HCI identities, the Test and Confirm mode should not be used.

   #. Wait for the DFU to finish and then verify that the new application works properly by observing the new device name visible in the Device Manager app.

Additional Information
**********************

You can test BLE-based FOTA samples with the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_.
For DFU over a serial connection, use the :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` tool.

.. note::
   On the nRF54H20 SoC, Direct XIP mode uses a merged image slot that combines both application and radio core images.
   Refer to the sample's DTS overlay files to understand the partition layout.
   In contrast, Swap modes place application and radio images in separate MCUboot slots, enabling multi-image updates.

   Direct XIP (merged) build artifacts are generated in ``build/zephyr``.
   Swap-mode artifacts reside in subdirectories under ``build`` (for example, ``build/smp_svr/zephyr`` or ``build/ipc_radio/zephyr``).

.. note::

>    DFU from external flash is not supported on the nRF54H20 SoC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   DFU from external flash is currently not supported on the nRF54H20 SoC.
```

1. Navigate to the :file:`zephyr/samples/hello_world` directory.

#. Build the firmware:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -p -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y

#. Program the firmware onto the device:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west flash

See the :zephyr:code-sample:`smp-svr` sample for a reference of how you can further configure your application with MCUboot.
It demonstrates how to enable :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` commands in the application, allowing you to read information about images managed by MCUboot.

RAM cleanup
***********

To prevent data leakage, enable MCUboot's RAM cleanup by setting the :kconfig:option:`SB_CLEANUP_RAM` Kconfig option as follows:

* When building with CMake, add ``-Dmcuboot_CONFIG_SB_CLEANUP_RAM``.
* When using sysbuild, add ``CONFIG_SB_CLEANUP_RAM=y`` to :file:`sysbuild/mcuboot.conf`.

This feature is controlled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SB_CLEANUP_RAM` Kconfig option.

Supported signatures
********************

MCUboot supports the following signature types:

* Ed25519 - default for nRF54H20

> * Ed25519-pure - Recommended option, enabled by setting :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE` to ``y``

Reviewer 3: Please remoe Ed25519-pure. It is not merged as of now, waiting on backport. 
If added later, docs will be update.
